J1027 and J1708 Visual Description
The primary visual in this release features a panel of four separate images laid out in a two-by-two grid. On top are two images of a triple galaxy merger named J1027. On the bottom are two images of a triple galaxy merger named J1708. In both cases, the galaxy mergers have resulted in double, growing, supermassive black holes. In this panel, the images on the left are labeled 'X-ray', and the images on the right are labeled 'Optical'.
In the upper-left of the panel is the X-ray image of J1027. Here, three neon purple shapes float in the blackness of space, resembling round or oval light bulbs on a hazy night. These shapes are arranged in a roughly triangular pattern with one glowing shape on the bottom, and two above. The shape on the bottom and the one to its upper-right, both of which are X-rays from hot gas surrounding supermassive black holes, have lighter, whiter cores encircled with distinct neon purple rings. The vague shape to the upper-left has no such core, and its hazy purple outer edges blend into the brighter, larger shape below.
In the upper-right quadrant is the optical image of J1027. Here, a series of glowing shapes and clustered dots in a rusty orange and purple palette are arranged like a smile, or a flattened letter U, again set against the blackness of space. These are the three colliding and merging galaxies. On the far left side of the U are sparse clusters of small faint dots in a rusty orange cloud. Near the center left is a tighter cluster of bright dots containing one of the two supermassive black holes. To its right is a white dot surrounded by hazy purple light. In the upper-right of the U is the region containing the second J1027 black hole, which appears here as a vague, faint purple shape in the rusty orange haze.
At our lower-left of the panel is the image labeled 'J1708 X-Ray'. In the center of this image is a clear, bright white circle with an outer edge of neon purple light. To its upper-left is a small dot in the same neon purple color. Both of these shapes are X-rays from hot gas surrounding supermassive black holes.
And finally, at our lower-right is an Optical image of J1708. This image features three white dots surrounded by salmon-colored rings and haze. These are the three colliding and merging galaxies. The dot in the center is the brightest, and the salmon-colored ring around it is the most clearly defined. The dot to its upper-left is less distinct, but the two appear to be floating in the same grainy salmon-colored cloud. Both are supermassive black holes. Separated from the pair, down and to the right from the bright dot in the center, is another dot with a pale white core and a salmon-colored ring surrounded by a sparse grainy cloud.