This release features composite images in X-ray and infrared wavelengths, and a short time-lapse video, all related to flares in a survey of star-forming regions. 
One composite image features a star-forming region of the Milky Way known as RCW 120. Here, we're shown an expanding bubble of hydrogen gas about 13 light-years across, which resembles an electric-blue smoke ring with a wispy break near our upper right. Throughout this structure, and across this region of space, are thousands of tiny stars in white, pale blue, gold, and hot pink. The pink stars are part of the Chandra X-ray Observatory dataset and are mostly young stars emitting powerful flares, or outbursts. The brightest pink stars have white cores.
A second composite image depicts the Lagoon Nebula, another region in the Milky Way where stars are actively forming. Here, we're shown a portion of a large bubble of hydrogen gas, which enters the image at our lower left, and appears to collect in a relatively dense cloud to our right of center. This hydrogen gas is depicted in the same neon blue color as RCW 120, as they share the same Infrared wavelengths. Once again, the structure and blackness of space are dotted with white, pale blue, gold, and hot pink stars. Several of the pink stars have brilliant white cores.
One such star, located in the middle of the Lagoon Nebula, experienced a "mega-flare" while being observed by Chandra. Twenty-seven exposures, covering almost 23 hours of observations, are presented as a separate 10 second time-lapse video titled Lagoon Nebula Flare. The video begins with a close up of a fairly dim hot pink sphere. The sphere grows in size and luminosity, and a pale white dot appears in the center. The sphere abruptly grows larger and brighter, the white now dominating, encircled by a thin ring of pink-purple. This is the mega-flare. The sphere returns to its original size and coloring, but the core pulses with pale white energy several more times before the time-lapse ends. 
