Different telescopes detect different types of light. Much of what they capture is recorded as digital data. Those data can then be translated into visuals, or even sounds. In today's release, the data from three different astronomical observations is presented in collections of visualizations, and sonifications. 
The first collection features observations of the system R Aquarii. There, a white dwarf star and a red giant star are in orbit around one another. In the composite visualization, the two stars are represented by brilliant white dots at the center of the image. The stars sit at the center of a giant, wispy orange cross that extends to all four edges of the image. This structure is evidence of outbursts generated by the pair of stars. A wavy line of soft, purple shapes, dot the horizontal bar of the cross. These shapes represent an X-ray jet from the white dwarf star. The jet creates shockwaves as it bangs into surrounding material. In the related sonifications, a radial arm sweeps clockwise around the image. Tones similar to a xylophone, or set of singing bowls, play when the sweeping arm encounters the wispy orange cross. The purple shapes are transformed into synthetic, windy purrs. The further from the center of the image, the higher the notes. And the brighter the [light] source, the louder the volume.
The second collection features observations of Stephan's Quintet, a gathering of four galaxies held together by gravity. The fifth galaxy appears to be part of the group from our perspective, but is in fact much closer to us. The composite visualization combines optical, X-ray, and infrared data. In it, the galaxies resemble bright white dots surrounded by pale blue clouds. The distinct clouds are marbled with red veins, and connected by bright blue streaks. In the composite sonification, a faint line sweeps down the image from the upper edge to the bottom. Notes pluck and ping as the line passes background stars and galaxies. The bright Quintet of featured galaxies conjure sounds of deep winds and high-pitched wails. 
The third collection features observations of a large galaxy known as Messier 104. Messier 104 is a spiral galaxy, but from Earth, we see its edge, not its face. In the composite visualization, Messier 104 resembles a misty purple cloud with a bright white core, encircled by a horizontal ring of spiraling arms. In the background are dozens of bright blue dots, which represent distant stars and galaxies. Several sonifications have been created for Messier 104. Some feature a single band of light, such as infrared or optical. Others are composite sonifications, combining the source data from several telescopes to create symphonies. In each, gently arching horizontal lines sweep down the image from top to bottom, prompting thrums, whirs, and whistles of various pitches, when they encounter light of varying brightness from different sources.
